Docs/Commands/Building a Simple Command.md, before:

# Building a Simple Command

In order to build a new activity for nsquared agents you will need to build a .NET 8.0 assembly that contains a class that implements the [`IAgentCommand`](IAgentCommand.md) interface.

## Step-by-Step creating a simple nsquared agent Command

1. Start by creating a new C# class library project named SimpleCommand.

   ```bash
    dotnet new classlib --name SimpleCommand
   ```

   This will create a new folder named SimpleCommand containing C# project named SimpleCommand, and a code file named Class1.cs.
1. Rename the file `Class1.cs` to `Command.cs`
1. Rename the class in the code to `Command`

   ```cs
    namespace SimpleCommand;
    public class Command
    {
    }
   ```

1. In the `SimpleCommand.csproj` file make sure the `TargetFramework` is `net8.0`

   ```xml
    <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
   ```

1. In the `SimpleCommand.csproj` file add a `TargetExt` field below the `TargetFramework` line

   ```xml
    <TargetExt>.Command</TargetExt>
   ```

1. Add a package reference to the nsquared.agents NuGet package, from PowerShell you can do this with the following command.

   ```sh
   dotnet add package nsquared.agents.api --prerelease

   ```

   This will add the reference to the `SimpleCommand.csproj` file

   ```xml
    <ItemGroup>
      <PackageReference Include="naquared.agents.api" />
    </ItemGroup>
   ```

1. In the `SimpleCommand.csproj` file add a post build step to copy the command to the folder that it can be loaded from.

   ```xml
      <Target Name="PostBuildWin" AfterTargets="PostBuildEvent" Condition="'$(OS)' == 'Windows_NT'">
        <Exec Command="xcopy &quot;$(OutputPath)*.*&quot; &quot;$(LocalAppData)\nsquared.agents\&quot; /E /Y /I" />
      </Target>
   ```

1. In the `Command.cs` file add a `using` to import the `nsquared.agents` namespace

   ```cs
    using nsquared.agents;
   ```

1. In the `Command.cs` file implement the `IAgentCommand` interface in the Command class

   ```cs
    public class Command : IAgentCommand
   ```

1. Add the required methods to the `Command` class

   ```cs
    using nsquared.agents;

    namespace SimpleCommand;
    public class Command : IAgentCommand
    {
        public string Name => "SimpleCommand";

        public bool HasSettings => false;
        public AgentCommandType CommandType => AgentCommandType.KeywordLocal;

        Task<string?> IAgentCommand.Perform(string commandRequest, IAgentAnimations? animations)
        {
            if (commandRequest.Contains("simple", StringComparison.CurrentCultureIgnoreCase))
            {
                return Task.FromResult<string?>("I am doing a simple command!");
            }
            return Task.FromResult<string?>(null);
        }
    }
   ```

1. Build the SimpleCommand project. It should build into the `SimpleCommand.Command` file in your logged in user `%LocalAppData%\nsquared.agents` folder.
1. Run your nsquared agents application and it should load the new command, that will trigger with any command containing the word `simple`

![Doing a simple command](../images/DoingSimpleCommand.png)

[The full source code for this example](../../Samples/SimpleCommand/)

Commit message:

remove the postbuild step that copies the command

Docs/Commands/Building a Simple Command.md, after:

# Building a Simple Command

In order to build a new activity for nsquared agents you will need to build a .NET 8.0 assembly that contains a class that implements the [`IAgentCommand`](IAgentCommand.md) interface.

## Step-by-Step creating a simple nsquared agent Command

1. Start by creating a new C# class library project named SimpleCommand.

   ```bash
    dotnet new classlib --name SimpleCommand
   ```

   This will create a new folder named SimpleCommand containing C# project named SimpleCommand, and a code file named Class1.cs.
1. Rename the file `Class1.cs` to `Command.cs`
1. Rename the class in the code to `Command`

   ```cs
    namespace SimpleCommand;
    public class Command
    {
    }
   ```

1. In the `SimpleCommand.csproj` file make sure the `TargetFramework` is `net8.0`

   ```xml
    <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
   ```

1. In the `SimpleCommand.csproj` file add a `TargetExt` field below the `TargetFramework` line

   ```xml
    <TargetExt>.Command</TargetExt>
   ```

1. Add a package reference to the nsquared.agents NuGet package, from PowerShell you can do this with the following command.

   ```sh
   dotnet add package nsquared.agents.api --prerelease

   ```

   This will add the reference to the `SimpleCommand.csproj` file

   ```xml
    <ItemGroup>
      <PackageReference Include="naquared.agents.api" />
    </ItemGroup>
   ```

1. In the `Command.cs` file add a `using` to import the `nsquared.agents` namespace

   ```cs
    using nsquared.agents;
   ```

1. In the `Command.cs` file implement the `IAgentCommand` interface in the Command class

   ```cs
    public class Command : IAgentCommand
   ```

1. Add the required methods to the `Command` class

   ```cs
    using nsquared.agents;

    namespace SimpleCommand;
    public class Command : IAgentCommand
    {
        public string Name => "SimpleCommand";

        public bool HasSettings => false;
        public AgentCommandType CommandType => AgentCommandType.KeywordLocal;

        Task<string?> IAgentCommand.Perform(string commandRequest, IAgentAnimations? animations)
        {
            if (commandRequest.Contains("simple", StringComparison.CurrentCultureIgnoreCase))
            {
                return Task.FromResult<string?>("I am doing a simple command!");
            }
            return Task.FromResult<string?>(null);
        }
    }
   ```

1. Build the SimpleCommand project. It should build the `SimpleCommand.Command` file in a bin folder.

1. Run the nsquared agents application and open Settings, and then go to `Manage Commands`

   ![Manage Commands Menu in Settings](../images/ManageCommandsMenu.png)

1. In the Commands select Add

   ![Remove SimpleCommand from Commands](../images/AddNewCommand.png)

1. Find the SimpleCommand.Command file you have built.

   ![Remove SimpleCommand from Commands](../images/AddSimpleCommandCommand.png)

1. Invoke the SimpleCommand by using the keyword `simple` in your request 

![Doing a simple command](../images/DoingSimpleCommand.png)

[The full source code for this example](../../Samples/SimpleCommand/)
